---
title: Ghost Runner
pubdate: 2021-05-09
cover: ../../assets/images/ghost_runner.jpeg
coverAlt: Picture of Nick
publish: false
---

_Ghost Runner_ has the advantage of short satisfying segments that are easy to play one after the other, but no real hook to make you want to return to the game once you've taken a break. The wallrunning, dashing, and grappling that you're doing for most of the game feels fine, and the challenge seems appropriate, but I've not felt drawn forward through the game — neither the plot nor mechanics propel you through the game levels; rather, it presents segments one after the other and relies on the inertia of just playing the game to do the trick. In a way, it feels like the progress I've made in the game has come about simply because there's rarely a good moment to stop, rather than because I really want to see what's coming next. To be fair, there are frequent checkpoints, and I _could_ theoretically stop whenever I want — but even when all the game is presenting to you is some rote platforming, the fact that it's staring you in the face and you know you could knock out another checkpoint in thirty seconds makes it easy to continue playing, indefinitely, mindlessly.

The game is at its best in its longer, enemy-filled segments, where precision timings, optional routes, and varied enemy types challenge the player to both plan their path and execute perfect slashes, dashes, and parries, incrementally building an action-packed routine that has just enough variability between attempts that a little bit of improvisation and adaptability is required. However, for each one of these segments, there are ten platforming or combat challenges that are so simple that they might as well not be there at all. This is the way the game keeps you moving constantly, feeling like you're making progress, while not really challenging you at all. Ultimately, I think I'd prefer a game in which 90% of the segments are as hard as the 10% hardest segments that _Ghost Runner_ throws at you, even if that meant that I ended up playing much shorter sessions, quitting and returning often. Ultimately, this game just made me want to play _Titanfall 2_ again — that game had both solid platforming segments, and single- and multiplayer combat in which the wallrunning was much more dynamic and felt just as good, if not better.

To be fair, if there's one aspect of the game that _Ghost Runner_ knocks out of the park, it's the presentation. The cyberpunk aesthetics are delectable, visually and aurally, and the art direction is done well enough to forgive at least some of the absolutely nonsensical environments that come with any platformer.

Still, it's not surprising to me that the buzz around this game evaporated more or less immediately after it's release. It's a fine title, and worth a buy if you want a little more _Mirror's Edge_ or are just looking for a pretty game to play, but it doesn't seem to be anything special. I'm very happy to have a decent cyberpunk game to chew on for a bit, but I don't expect _Ghost Runner_ to end up as much more than a snack.
